.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2024 Franco Fichtner <franco@opnsense.org>
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\"
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\"
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.Dd November 22, 2024
.Dt QYUA 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm qyua
.Nd Quick kyua wrapper
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl abdlrV
.Op Ar test ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility is a thin wrapper around
.Xr kyua 1
in order to run test cases directly from the source tree at
.Pa /usr/src .
In order to do this,
the
.Pa /usr/tests
directory is required,
which is provided by the
.Li tests
set of
.Xr opnsense-update 8 .
The source tree can be installed using
.Xr opnsense-code 8 .
Internally,
.Xr kyua-test 1
is used to run the given tests.
.Pp
Please note that
.Nm
is only concerned with a single test component, namely
.Pa sys/netpfil/pf .
The focus is the ability to assist with writing tests where
they are being committed/published in the first place without
the need to compile/install anything.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width ".Fl a" -offset indent
.It Fl a
Select all available tests to run.
.It Fl b
Bootstrap mode installs the matching tests set.
.It Fl d
In debug mode, a single test case is selected from the specified
test file using
.Sq Ar file:name .
Internally, this invokes
.Xr kyua-debug 1
instead.
.It Fl l
List all the tests that can be run.
.It Fl r
In reference mode, run the tests available in
.Pa /usr/tests .
This works without
.Pa /usr/src
being available, but is not the default mode.
.It Fl V
Set debug mode for shell script output.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr kyua 1 ,
.Xr kyua-debug 1 ,
.Xr kyua-test 1 ,
.Xr opnsense-code 8 ,
.Xr opnsense-update 8
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Franco Fichtner Aq Mt franco@opnsense.org
